Communication Skills  2   І   202 4 - 205      
My convincing and negotiating strategies  
[ Quinten De Meyer ]  
1.  Convincing others  
Reflect  on the class on ‘convincing others'  from  week 21   and discuss what you learned from it. Here 
are a few prompts that can help you out:  
•   What was the  most surprising or eye - opening concept you learned about persuasion during this 
class? Why did it stand out to you?  
•   Which convincing tactic do you think would be the hardest for you to use in real life? Why might 
you struggle with it?  
•   Reflecting on your own communication style, what aspect of persuasion do you feel most 
confident about? Which aspect do you think needs the most improvement, and how can you work 
on that?  
 
I learned that relationship had a lot to do with how future negotiations would play out. Aspects 
like trust, mutual understanding. Persuasion and negotiation is not just the arguments itself, but 
also the person you interact with.  
 
The tactic I would find hardest to use is  emotional appeal . This is because I’ll have to make 
something up and I don’t think they would believe my act at all. I’d rather lie about the  product or 
thing we are negotiating about, like the rarity or final chance to come to an agreeme nt. Building 
pressure on the other person with these tactics is more my style than to play on emotions.  
 
 
How do you balance emotional appeals with logical reasoning when trying to persuade someone? 
Can you think of a time when you successfully (or unsuccessfully) used one or the other?  
 
I like to use logical reasoning more, it’s less of a  weaponisation because you’re using facts instead 
of gathering opinions. For emotional appeal it’s harder to make something up and act to try and 
dishonestly play on their emotions I just don’t like that .  
 
 
Persuasion can be powerful. How do you think ethical boundaries should be maintained when using 
convincing tactics? Can you recall a situation where persuasion was used unethically ?  
 
Yes, should have ethical boundaries especially with high stakes. You should not be fully misleading 
or withhold information that might be disastrous in the future. On time there was a parking lot 
that said only €3 for 30 minutes but in small text almost im possible to read it stated if parked 
longer than 2 hours = price €45.  
 
Page  1   out of  3  
 

Communication Skills  2   І   202 4 - 205      
2.  Negotiation  
In  week 22 , you will play the 2 $   Game. Answer the following questions:  
•   What did you learn about your own negotiation tactics?   
•   Did you act differently because of the time limit?   
•   In the third round, when you had to negotiate with the same person again, did you change 
tactics? Was the relationship changed because of the previous negotiation? How and why?   
•   Overall, what did you learn from this game?  
 
I learned that I could not really come up with a good excuse but a positive I learnt was that I was 
pretty effective   at finding holes and solutions in their story for my gain.  This means that I don’t 
have to focus on my story, and they don’t get the chance to focus on my story if I keep pressuring 
about theirs.  The time limit helped me get to a deal quickly and pressure more, using it to my 
advantage. Because we had to negotiate with the same person again I could easily utilize the same 
tactics because they   made the same mistakes as last time and I expected it. The relationship didn’t 
hurt negotiations.   
 
I learnt that people in this game don’t want to come to an agreement based on their story, they 
want to win the game based on the money goal. So even if I gave a perfect solution to their story 
the person I  negotiated   with went silent   and said that it’s not part of the game to offer solutions  
and they just need the money, not the solution.   In my opinion this is not playing the game 
correctly.  
 
 
In  week 23 , you will learn about negotiation strategies. Answer the following questions:  
•   What  are the tactics that you (subconsciously) used  called?    
•   When are these tactics appropriate and when are they inappropriate?  
•   If you could go back to last week and change your actions, which tactics would you use instead? 
Why?  
 
•   Anchoring   –   Starting with a strong, strategic opening offer.  
•   Framing   –   Telling   facts in a way that benefits my side.  
•   Hardball tactics   –   Such as exploiting time pressure or ignoring their story to shift focus.  
•   Concessions   –   I made small  concessions in price   to appear  kind   while aiming for my ideal 
outcome , because my first offer was higher than needed.  
The se tactics   become  inappropriate   if they involve deception that crosses ethical boundaries or if 
used in  integrative negotiations , which depend on  trust   and  shared information .  
 
What I would change is I would just give them their way with the money  if they won’t budge. So 
it’s at least a lose/win situation instead of a lose/lose.  
 
3 .  Growth as an IT professional  
Page  2   out of  3  
 

Communication Skills  2   І   202 4 - 205      
What did you learn about convincing and negotiating ethically? How would you use this in your 
future IT career? Or maybe: what would you certainly not do? How would you deal with someone 
who tries to convince you or negotiate with you unethically?  
 
What I learned is that you  must   be careful with how you convince and negotiate, especially in a 
work setting. I don’t think you should cross the line just to win. There’s a difference between using 
tactics and being completely unethical. If you lie too much or hide important info, it al ways comes 
back to you later. In IT, if you oversell a product or hide a bug just to close a deal, you’re going to 
ruin trust and maybe your job too.  
 
For me, I wouldn’t go that far. I’m okay with playing the game — like using pressure, creating 
urgency, or even bluffing a  bit — but I wouldn’t mislead someone to the point where it becomes 
damaging. Especially if someone else is trying to negotiate with me in a shady way, like faking rules 
or trying to guilt - trip me, I’d either call it out or push back. I don’t like being playe d, and I don’t 
play dirty unless they start it.  
 
In the future, I’ll just stick to using smart strategies   and tactics   like anchoring, framing, or using 
time pressure when needed. I think being sharp and confident is better than trying to be the “nice 
guy” all the time. You can still win deals without being dishonest. You just have to know when to 
push and when to walk aw ay.  
 
My favorite   strategy when I have to buy something and negotiate the price is to act like I don’t 
really care about it. I’ll show almost no interest, mention I have other options, and start pointing 
out every little flaw or issue with it. That way, the seller starts t hinking, “He’s not going to buy 
this,” and they feel like they have to lower the price just to make the sale. I’ll throw in a lowball 
offer, and most of the time, they’ll accept because they think no one else will want it either
 
 
 
Page  3   out of  3  
 