Communication Skills  2   І   202 4 - 205      
Humanity in IT  
[ Alexander   Conserva ] & [ Quinten   De Meyer ]  
1.  First reflections  
In week 7, you will have a class on cultural appropriation and stereotypes. After that class, write 
down your first reflections on cultural  appropriation and stereotypes. This can be in the workplace, in 
your personal life or based on personal experiences. Aim for 100 to 150 words.  
Before  the lesson  I never really thought about it   like for Halloween I thought it was fine and 
normal to dress up  in   anything you want   but now I see that for  non - dominant groups  this is not 
nice . I didn’t  realize   it could enforce stereotypes or misunderstandings for these cultures .  
I (Quinten) have  realized   I  unknowingly appropriated Saudi Drifting culture by making videos of 
playing a game and doing Saudi drifting (Hajwala / Tafheet). I didn’t in tent to be malicious but now 
see that it’s damaging to the car culture of  Saudi Arabia .   I also used the wrong  music for these 
videos.  
I (Alexander)  at  scho ol when I was  young,   they also did like the  ‘I ndianen   dans’   and dressed up as 
In dian s   for kids but that also has been  cultural  appropriation,   so you do it already in school when 
you're   young. You kind of grow up doing it.    
 
2.  Research  
In week 8, you will have a class on how IT can impact our worldview. Pick a culturally relevant topic 
of your own and research it. Aim for 500 to 600 words, excluding your bibliography. Provide enough 
background information and make sure to separate fact f rom opinion.  You are encouraged to share 
your opinion, but make sure you frame it as such and can give multiple, strong points of 
argumentation. Three different sources in your text and bibliography  are   the absolute minimum.  
 
The impact of IT on  political   activism  
 
IT  has completely changed politic al activism  because you can now use the internet  to spread 
information   on ,   for example social media platforms   or even your own website.   But this could also 
be a negative because of this you also get a lot of misinformation , you get government 
surveillance and  even online censorship.  
 
One of the biggest impacts of IT is how it helps people organize and  act   quickly. Social media 
platforms like Twitter and Facebook allow activists to share updates and gather support. For 
example, during the Arab Spring in 2010 – 2012 social media played a key role in helping people 
organize protests and share what was happening   with the world. In the 2019 Hong Kong protests, 
apps like Telegram were used for secure communication to avoid government tracking.    
 
Page  1   out of  3  
 

Communication Skills  2   І   202 4 - 205      
IT also makes it easier to reach a bigger audience.   For example ,   by using hashtags like  #BLM  The 
Black Lives Matter protests in 2020 gained massive support thanks to the hashtags and viral videos 
that exposed injustices.  
 
Alexander:   I find the internet   very useful for all the information you can find  but I feel like activist 
are very dependent of platforms like Facebook, Twitter or even TikTok now   and if they want ,   they 
can just delete the videos or posts .  
 
Quinten :  S ocial media has become the easiest way to find information from individual people and  
media from around the world. IT has made it possible for everyone to be connected and share 
opinions and information about situations which is a  double - edged   sword still.  
 
While IT help s with  spreading  useful information,  there is also  mis information   that gets spread .  
For example ,   a lot of social media  platforms   push content that gets a lot of views and likes to more 
people even if  it’s not correct information .   Or even during the 2016 U.S. election, fake news stories 
and misleading posts were shared   confusing voters and  their   opinions .  
 
Alexander:  I n my opinion  this is the  scariest   thing  about   IT because some people  believe certain 
things that  are or   are   not true ,   but they don’t even know that it isn’t true. Because sometimes they 
watch   a short video and believe what the person said but you should always do your own research 
before believing  it.  
 
Quinten:   I don’t like how misinformation and disinformation are easily spread on social media. 
They can give millions, even billions, the wrong perspective on something, which can become 
harmful to  lots   of people. Propaganda is now much easier to  spread   on these platforms.  Also , with 
AI, footage can be  convincingly manipulated, potentially having harmful impacts on the lives of 
many people.  
 
It   helps activists but   it also makes the government can track   them.   Some countries have tools like 
facial recognition cameras  and even internet shutdown s   to try and stop protests. For example , 
during Hong Kong   protest people had to use umbrellas and laser pointers   to not get identified by 
the facial recognition cameras.  
 
Alexander:  In think that protestors should   implement more anonymous and secure chat rooms  to 
communicate with each other because in some  countries   they could get in a lot of trouble. But 
even for us I think   we should  take privacy more   seriously   because everything we do online can be 
tracked by your internet provider.   I also find that wanting to  have more privacy by using tools like 
Tails OS   gives a wrong impression to thinking that you are probably doing something illegal   but 
you’re   just taking privacy more  seriously .  
 
Quinten:   IT has transformed political activism making it easier to organize and spread awareness. 
However ,   it also  leads to   misinformation and surveillance. IT is a powerful tool for activism, but it 
needs to be used carefully.  
 
History.com Editors. (2020, 17 januari ). Arab Spring. HISTORY. Via 
https://www.history.com/topics/middle - east/arab - spring    
 
Hughes, B. H. C. &. R. (2020, 21 mei ). Why are there protests in Hong Kong? All the context you 
need. BBC News. Via  https://www.bbc.com/news/world - asia - china - 48607723  
 
Pew Research Center. (2024, 25 oktober).  #BlackLivesMatter turns 10 .   Via 
https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2023/06/29/blacklivesmatter - turns - 10/    
Page  2   out of  3  
 

Communication Skills  2   І   202 4 - 205      
 
Freedom House. (z.d.). The Rise of Digital Authoritarianism. In Freedom House.  Via 
https://freedomhouse.org/report/freedom - net/2018/rise - digital - authoritarianism    
 
 
3. Growth as an IT professional  
This exercise should contribute to your growth as an IT professional. Briefly reflect on what you have 
learned and  how   you will use this once you graduate and enter the workforce. Avoid broad, vague or 
general statements. Aim for 100 to 200 words.  
 
Alexander :  I have learned that  you should take  privacy  very serious  and also try and stay 
anonymous online by using tools like Tails OS , e specially if you are  an   activist .   I didn’t know that in 
some countries  it was this strict with even internet shutdowns and  identifying you from social 
media to real life with facial recognition cameras.   Once I graduate ,   I will always try to  stay safe and 
anonymous online and don’t believe everything on the internet.   Always do your own research 
before believing  in   someone else.   When I   work with data ,   I would  make sure that   it   is secure   so 
nobody could use this information for a bad purpose.  At work or even life in general I would try 
not  to   make  stereotypes and keep in mind non - d ominant groups .   For example ,   because we are 
from the IT world it  would have  happened   once where you make a joke  of Indian scammers and 
use the ir   accent but if someone from  India hears th at   they wouldn’t like it.  
 
Quinten:   I have learned how IT both helps and endangers activists   and users o nline .  When   I 
graduate, I will  use IT   responsibly   and avoid spreading misinformation, I will also instruct people 
measures to take on the internet . I will take privacy seriously in  personal   and professional settings, 
applying secure tools and promoting ethical  practices . I will   also   be mindful of cultural  aspects  in 
IT, reflecting on my past experiences like my  cultural  appropriation of Saudi drifting. This 
awareness  has helped me in spotting cultural appropriation and other malpractices .   I aim to 
continuously educate myself and others on ethical IT practices to create a more inclusive online 
environment .  
 
 
 
Page  3   out of  3  
 