Communication Skills 2  І   2024 - 2025      
Understanding my client  
Kynan Van Looy ,  Quinten De Meyer ,  Lukas M ue s  
1.  First  impressions  
how  will you   ensure you will make a good impression when you meet your client for the first time?  
Aim for  75   to 1 00   words.   In SKIL2, you will be placed in teams together. Then, you can copy all team 
members’ answers into one document from which you will continue to work for the next six weeks.  
 
•   Kynan Van Looy :  I will make sure to be dressed properly and have a smile on my face when 
the client arrives. Then I will greet the client in a professional way before we go inside. I 
will make sure  I   have  all the items I need prepared before the client arrives, that way  I  
don’t have to grab everything   from my backpack last minute. I will listen to the client 
carefully and make sure I understand the problem. I will also try to make the client feel like 
I understand them.   
 
•   Quinten De Meyer :  I will ensure I arrive on time, allowing me to approach the meeting 
without rushing and stumbling about, having all the items prepared. My clothing will be 
appropriate for the setting, it is a formal meeting after all. A firm handshake when meeting 
the cli ent can set a positive tone for myself and the client. I will speak calmly, avoiding 
stuttering or rushing, and maintain a steady pace with my words. Matching the client’s 
formality and communication style, I will use open body language,  smile, and maintain eye 
contact to convey confidence. I will show no signs of nervousness, staying composed 
throughout the meeting. Most importantly, I will listen attentively to the client and 
respond thoughtfully to the things they say.  
 
•   Lukas M ue s :  I walk calmly towards him and say hello in a friendly manner, giving a firm 
handshake. I make sure to have a smile on my face and look him or her in the eyes. Just 
after shaking hands, I ask how they are doing. During the conversation, I make sure that all  
my attention is focused on the client who is speaking, and I give signals throughout the 
conversation to show that I am interested.  
 
 
2.  Client workshop  
How will you prepare for your client workshop? What would you keep in mind? What will you 
certainly (not) do?  
 
We will make sure everyone is present and arrives on time.   Everyone  wears  appropriate clothing  
that matches the general style of the team .  We will prepare a ll the items   to take notes, read the 
questions, etc. in advance .   We’ll make sure everyone gets a chance to have an interaction with the 
Page  1   out of  3  
 

Communication Skills 2  І   2024 - 2025      
client, ensuring the conversation is not only between two people.   The whole team will greet the 
client in a professional way. Our phone notifications will be turned off to ensure the conversation 
won’t be interrupted .  
 
 
Which questions do you want to ask during your first client workshop?  
First, we   will ask the client their  main  problem.  Then we will go more in depth about the problem, 
asking for more details to ensure we understand the  problem properly.   After that we will ask what  
the   results   are   the client  is   expect ing in the   long term and short term   and what  the client  expects 
from  the team .  
 
 
Which feedback did you receive from your client during or after the workshop?  
We didn’t receive any feedback during this session   as both clients for the projects were in front of 
the class and let us ask questions together with the other groups.   
 
 
3 .  Business case  
You will have to create a business case for your client. Create this business case in the separate 
template and  submit it along with this file for assignment 1.   
Please keep in mind that spelling and grammar will contribute to your final grade.  
4. Client demo  
How will you prepare for your client workshop? What would you keep in mind? What will you 
certainly (not) do?  
 
We will make sure everyone is present and is dressed properly. We write down the most 
important t opics to discuss and show. We also assign one member to take notes during our 
meeting  so we can always look back to the feedback and wishes of our client.   We will make sure 
that we introduce everyone properly and end with a summarisation of what we have talked about, 
to ensure that we are on the same page as our client.   
 
 
   
Page  2   out of  3  
 

Communication Skills 2  І   2024 - 2025      
Which questions do you want to ask during your first client workshop?  
 
•   W hen   is the IT - polis event ?    
•   H ow long does the event take ?  
•   H ow many stands will there be ?  
•   H ow many people are expected to go to the event ?  This includes students, lecturers 
and visitors.  
•   Can we gather the serial numbers of the participating students to make sure they 
can’t vote ?  
•   Examples to propose :  
-   NFC - tag + s canning student cards  
-   NFC - tag  on its own  
-   Code o n a paper card  
-   Google Form   with  code  - >  If not   G oogle Forms:  Thomas More datacentre available 
or not ?  
•   How many voting stands are required ?  
 
 
After the demo, you will have to send your client a professional email to confirm the feedback that 
you have received from them and what you will do with it.  Copy - paste that email here.  
 
Geachte Mevrouw Renders,   
 
Graag vat ik in deze e - mail ons gesprek van eerder kort samen. We hebben vernomen dat u ons 
concept van NFC - tags als een interessant idee beschouwt. Daarnaast gaf u aan dat u graag een 
manier zou  willen vinden om mensen meer te motiveren om daadwerkelijk te gaan stemmen.   
 
Uw feedback waarderen wij ten zeerste, en wij zullen ons uiterste best doen om dit aspect verder 
uit te werken. Mocht u nog aanvullende vragen of opmerkingen hebben, dan horen wij dit graag. 
Wij nemen uw input uiteraard mee in het verdere proces.   
 
Alvast hartelijk dank voor uw tijd en ondersteuning.   
 
Met vriendelijke groet,   
Kynan Van Looy  
KRE1  
5. Professional growth  
What have you learned from your first client  communication? What went well and what could have 
gone better? Please name at the very least one thing you could do better next time.  
 
We learned that being well prepared helps a lot during the meeting, we will keep  preparing 
oursel ves . Next time we will ask less but better questions.   We will also make sure that we make 
our introduction and summarisation better.   
 
Page  3   out of  3  
 